First Assignment
================
Mustafa Yıldız
16 Ekim 2018

Work Description

I am working in the R\&D Department at Borsa İstanbul as a senior
specialist. As a part of my work, I’m dealing with the new trends on
capital markets and finance sector. Transformation and revenue
diversification are the two hot trends in capital markets. With the
transformation of global stock exchanges into high-tech companies and
searching for high yields, using big data in the strategic and
operational workflow has been a vital component of stock exchanges. In
this context, as Borsa İstanbul, we are trying to constitute data
analytics by using order book data in order to increase the depth of
Turkish capital markets.  
RStudio Conference

The RStudio Conference by Mette Langaas named “Teaching statistics -
with all learning resources written in R Markdown” is about using R as a
new teaching method. In the YouTube video, she makes brief introduction
about R Markdown and its modules, explains teaching approaches with
using R, exemplifies R Markdown issues and shares the observations on
her students.

Example 1: R for Data Analytics

High Frequency Trading and, as a subset of it, Algorithmic Trading, are
the two mainstream of buy side companies. Algorithms is a decision
originated from the behaviors of investors and reflects the pattern of
orders and execution at a financial market. In this stochastic models
data analytics are the factors that are used to get results about
investment decision. As a programming language, R can be used to
constitute these kind of data analytics from big data sets of order
book.

Example 2: R for Surveillance

Surveillance is used in order to find the manipulations and market
abuses. Before big data management tools, this monitoring was executed
manually. After the development of new big data management tools, this
monitoring for surveillance has been executed automatically by using AI
tools. In this context R can be used for designing surveillance models
by using R machine learning libraries.

Example 3: R for Robo-advisor, a fintech model

Robo-advisors (robo-advisers) are digital platforms that provide
automated, algorithm-driven financial planning services with little to
no human supervision. A typical robo-advisor collects information from
clients about their financial situation and future goals through an
online survey, and then uses the data to offer advice and/or
automatically invest client assets. R also can be used to define the
these kind of automated investment decisions on behalf of clients
(investors) by using financial data, customer data and third part data
such as social media sentiments.
